# Music Place Service Prediction
## Introduction 

For owners of places offering music related services, it is critical to understand the competitive landscape of the area. Without effectively modeling services offered, owners lack the ability to strategically choose the services they offer and when expanding to a new area they risk offering redundant services in a saturated market. By addressing this problem, owners are empowered to curate competitively differentiated service offerings for their current location and better plan expansion to new areas. 

The original goal for this project was to predict popularity for these places offering musical services, however due to issues with the popularity data (metadata ratings of the data as opposed to actual popularity), we pivoted to this new scope. The motivation behind this project came from observing friends and family members who own musical places and seeing how differentiated service offerings can improve popularity and even turn a competing business into a client. For example one recording studio may hire a competing studio that offers the complementary service of video recording.
	
The unsupervised methods implemented as a part of exploratory analysis were Multiple Correspondence Analysis (MCA) and Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP). The goal for the MCA component was to explore the linear relationships between the categorical variables which comprised the dataset and develop intuitions about which features may be more influential. To complement this linear analysis, the goal for the UMAP component was to explore the nonlinear relationships and develop intuitions for influential features. Since the dataset is over 15,000 rows and contains several high cardinality categorical variables, UMAP was selected over T-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (T-SNE) as it is less computationally intensive.


The supervised methods used for this project are Logistic Regression, Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and Naive Bayes. Logistic Regression is intended to be a simple baseline model, XGBoost to capture nonlinear relationships which may be omitted by Logistic Regression (without interaction terms), and Naive Bayes to provide simple, transparent insights into how features influence the predicted class.
The main findings for the supervised learning section suggest that while the model has been extensively tuned, tested, and validated, the dataset simply will not allow the model to precisely predict services_offered without relying too much on the inherent probabilities within the dataset. For example, relying on accuracy as a classification metric suggested that one model was 82% accurate when predicting class labels. However, analysis into the dataset determined that the dataset was heavily imbalanced, further confirmed by a low f1 score of 0.09. Given these two values, we can conclude that, due to the dataset predominantly containing a single class, all three attempted models have failed to effectively predict class labels without relying too heavily on the predetermined probabilities found within the dataset.  


For the unsupervised learning component, the team elucidated two critical insights from Multiple Correspondence Analysis (MCA) and Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP). MCA revealed the most informative types of musical places, and based on qualitative evaluation the team determined that the majority of these types share the common physical characteristic of a large audience space. This commonality helps to categorize superficially unrelated types such as concert halls, religious buildings, stadiums, and educational institutions. The next critical insight is that there is an informative pattern among musical places which are no longer active. This insight was uncovered with MCA demonstrating higher category contribution measures for ended status compared to active and was validated in the subset analysis of UMAP which illustrated the majority of status ended data points colocated in a similar local neighborhood.
